---
external help file: DSInternals.PowerShell.dll-Help.xml
Module Name: DSInternals
online version: https://github.com/MichaelGrafnetter/DSInternals/blob/master/Documentation/PowerShell/New-ADDBRestoreFromMediaScript.md
schema: 2.0.0
---

# New-ADDBRestoreFromMediaScript

## SYNOPSIS
Generates a PowerShell script that can be used to restore a domain controller from an IFM-equivalent backup (i.e. ntds.dit + SYSVOL).

## SYNTAX

```
New-ADDBRestoreFromMediaScript [-BootKey <Byte[]>] [-SysvolPath <String>]
 -SafeModeAdministratorPassword <SecureString> -DatabasePath <String> [-LogPath <String>] [<CommonParameters>]
```

## DESCRIPTION
The New-ADDBRestoreFromMediaScript cmdlet was created to save the day under certain specific circumstances. Imagine a company that had been attacked by some ransomware to the extent that all their domain controllers have been wiped. Moreover, no proper System State backups of DCs are available, only file-level ones. As a consequence, they are not able to restore Active Directory, the time is ticking and their only option seems to be reinstalling the entire AD forest from scratch. It might be hard to believe that someone would have violated all the best practices and neglected planning for disaster recovery, but, alas, such situations have occurred in large enterprises during the 2017 NotPetya outbreak. I have therefore come up with a domain controller recovery method that I call Restore from Media (RFM). As already hinted, this method can be used to restore domain controllers from file-level backups.

Unlike the [Install from Media (IFM)](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/previous-versions/windows/it-pro/windows-server-2008-R2-and-2008/cc816722(v=ws.10)) method, the Restore from Media method does not require network connectivity to a live writable domain controller. Nevertheless, the same installation source ([IFM backup](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/previous-versions/windows/it-pro/windows-server-2008-R2-and-2008/cc816574(v=ws.10)) with SYSVOL) can be used with both methods of DC installation.

To perform the Restore from Media operation, you need to have the following:

- A full Install from Media (IFM) backup of a domain controller or equivalent file-level backup. The backup must contain these files:

	- Domain database file (ntds.dit)

	- SYSTEM registry hive or a corresponding Boot Key / SysKey

	- SYSVOL directory

- A freshly installed Windows Server of the same version as the domain controller originally running the database that is to be restored. This information can be retrieved from the corresponding ntds.dit file using the [Get-ADDBDomainController](Get-ADDBDomainController.md) cmdlet.

- An isolated VLAN / virtual network as connectivity to any existing production domain controllers would have unforseen consequences.

Follow these steps on the target server in order to restore the domain controller:

1. In case of Windows Server 2008 (R2), run the `$PSVersionTable.PSVersion` to verify that at least PowerShell 3 is installed. [Upgrade](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/wmf/overview) if necessary.
 
2. Verify that the [PowerShell Script Execution Policy](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/microsoft.powershell.core/about/about_execution_policies?view=powershell-6) is set to RemoteSigned, Unrestricted or Bypass in the LocalMachine scope.

3. [Install](https://github.com/MichaelGrafnetter/DSInternals/wiki/Installation) the DSInternals PowerShell module for all users.

4. Copy the backup data to a local drive, e.g. C:\Backup.

5. Run the `New-ADDBRestoreFromMediaScript -DatabasePath 'C:\Backup\Active Directory\ntds.dit' > C:\Backup\Restore-ADDomainController.ps1` command.

6. Review the freshly generated PowerShell script and execute it.

7. Sit back and watch the magic happen. Up to 3 reboots will follow and the entire process may take up to 20 minutes to finish. You should then end up with a fully functional domain controller.

The script that is generated by the `New-ADDBRestoreFromMediaScript` cmdlet does the following actions:

- Rename the server to match the original domain controller.

- Install a new forest by promoting the server to a domain controller.

- Replace the newly generated database file (ntds.dit) and SYSVOL directory by the original ones.

- Re-encrypt the database using the local Boot Key.

- Update the LSA Policy to match the SID and GUID of the domain that is being restored.

- Reset the Invocation ID of the domain controller.

- Reconfigure SYSVOL replication in case it has been restored to a different path.

## EXAMPLES

### Example 1
```powershell
PS C:\> New-ADDBRestoreFromMediaScript -DatabasePath 'C:\IFM\Active Directory\ntds.dit' > C:\IFM\Restore.ps1
```

Generates a domain controller restoration script from a previously created IFM backup. The script can then be reviewed, modified if necessary, and executed manually.

### Example 2
```powershell
PS C:\> New-ADDBRestoreFromMediaScript -DatabasePath 'C:\IFM\Active Directory\ntds.dit' -BootKey 610bc29e6f62ca7004e9872cd51a0116 -SysvolPath 'C:\IFM\SYSVOL' > C:\IFM\Restore.ps1
```

Same as the previous example, but with explicitly provided SYSVOL directory path and boot key.

### Example 3
```cmd
ntdsutil.exe "activate instance ntds" ifm "create sysvol full C:\IFM" quit quit
icacls.exe C:\Windows\Sysvol\domain\Policies\* /save C:\IFM\SYSVOL\PolicyPermissions.txt
```

Creates an Install From Media (IFM) backup of a running domain controller and exports Group Policy ACLs.
This backup can later be used by the New-ADDBRestoreFromMediaScript cmdlet.

### Example 4
This is a sample PowerShell script generated by the New-ADDBRestoreFromMediaScript cmdlet:

```powershell
<#
.SYNOPSIS
Restores the LON-DC1 domain controller from its ntds.dit file.

.DESCRIPTION

This script performs a multi-phase domain controller restore from an IFM backup:
- Phase 0: Initiate the restore process and create a VSS backup.
- Phase 1: Set the local Administrator password if empty.
- Phase 2: Rename the computer and reboot if necessary.
- Phase 3: Install the required Windows features and reboot if needed.
- Phase 4: Promote the server to a domain controller.
- Phase 5: Restore the AD database, re-encrypt it, and reconfigure LSA policies.
- Phase 6: Replace the SYSVOL directory, restore ACLs if available, and reboot the server.
- Phase 7: Reconfigure the SYSVOL replication subscription.

Script exection logs can be found in the C:\Windows\Logs\DSInternals-RestoreFromMedia.txt file.

.PARAMETER Phase
Specifies the phase of the restore operation to execute. Used to orchestrate the integrated recovery workflow.

.NOTES
This script should only be executed on a freshly installed Windows Server 2012 R2 Datacenter Evaluation. Use at your own risk.
The DSInternals PowerShell module must be installed for all users on the target server.
It is recommended to change the DSRM password after DC promotion.

Author:  Michael Grafnetter
Version: 2.2

#>

#Requires -Version 3 -Modules DSInternals -RunAsAdministrator

param(
    [Parameter(Mandatory = $false)]
    [ValidateRange(0, 7)]
    [int] $Phase = 0
)

# Make sure that the required data types and cmdlets are available.
Import-Module -Name DSInternals -ErrorAction Stop

function Main {
    [string] $script:LogFile = "$env:windir\Logs\DSInternals-RestoreFromMedia.txt"
    [System.Console]::OutputEncoding = [System.Text.Encoding]::UTF8
    Write-Log -Message "Starting script execution in phase $Phase..."

    # The script must be executed locally so that it is accessible even after a reboot.
    Test-ScriptPath

    switch($script:Phase)
    {
        0 {
            Write-Log 'The LON-DC1 domain controller will now be restored from media. Up to 3 reboots will follow shortly.'

            # Perform a VSS backup before doing anything else.
            New-VolumeShadowCopy -Volume $env:SystemDrive

            # Invoke the first phase in the background.
            Register-ScheduledScript -ExecutePhase 1
        }
        1 {
            # The local Administrator account must have a password set for dcpromo to succeed.
            Reset-LocalAdministratorPassword -NewPassword 'Pa$$w0rd'

            # Continue to the next phase.
            Register-ScheduledScript -ExecutePhase 2
        }
        2 {
            Write-Log -Message 'Checking the computer name...'
            [bool] $computerRenameRequired = $env:COMPUTERNAME -ne 'LON-DC1'

            if ($computerRenameRequired) {
                # A server rename operation is required.
                # Note: The host name will automatically be truncated to 15 characters.
                Write-Log -Message 'Renaming the computer to LON-DC1...'
                Rename-Computer -NewName 'LON-DC1' -Force -Verbose *>> $script:LogFile
            } else {
                Write-Log -Message 'The local system already has the correct name. Skipping the rename operation.'
            }

            # Perform an optional reboot and continue to the next phase.
            Register-ScheduledScript -ExecutePhase 3 -RebootRequired:$computerRenameRequired
        }
        3 {
            Write-Log -Message 'Installing the required Windows features...'

            # Note: The ServerManager module is not available during Safe Boot. It is therefore not imported globally.
            Import-Module -Name ServerManager -ErrorAction Stop

            # Notes:
            # The dcpromo.exe tool would install most of these features if absent.
            # The BitLocker Recovery Password Viewer is called RSAT-Bitlocker-RecPwd on Windows Server 2008 R2 and cannot be instaleld on non-domain computers.
            # The AD-Domain-Services component would try to install UNIX-related components on Windows Server 2008 R2, which cannot be installed on non-domain computers.
            [string[]] $featuresToInstall = @(
                'DNS',
                'GPMC',
                'RSAT-AD-AdminCenter',
                'RSAT-ADDS-Tools',
                'RSAT-AD-PowerShell',
                'RSAT-DNS-Server',
                'RSAT-DFS-Mgmt-Con', # dfsrdiag.exe is not installed by default
                'RSAT-Feature-Tools-BitLocker-BdeAducExt' # BitLocker Recovery Password Viewer is not installed by default
            )

            # Notes:
            # The Add-WindowsFeature alias is used instead of Install-WindowsFeature for compatibility reasons.
            # The -IncludeManagementTools parameter is not used because it is not available on Windows Server 2008 R2.
            [object[]] $featuresRequiringRestart = Get-WindowsFeature |
                Where-Object Name -in $featuresToInstall |
                Add-WindowsFeature -IncludeAllSubFeature |
                Where-Object RestartNeeded -ne ([Microsoft.Windows.ServerManager.Commands.RestartState]::No) 2>> $script:LogFile

            [bool] $restartNeeded = $null -ne $featuresRequiringRestart

            # Perform an optional reboot and continue to the next phase.
            Register-ScheduledScript -ExecutePhase 4 -RebootRequired:$restartNeeded
        }
        4 {
            # Check if the NTDS service is present and enabled, possibly by a previous script execution.
            Write-Log -Message 'Checking the state of the NTDS service...'
            [System.ServiceProcess.ServiceController] $ntdsService = Get-Service -Name NTDS -ErrorAction SilentlyContinue

            if ($null -eq $ntdsService -or $ntdsService.StartType -eq [System.ServiceProcess.ServiceStartMode]::Disabled) {
                # A DC promotion is required.
                Write-Log -Message 'Promoting the server to a domain controller...'

                # Note: In order to maintain compatibility with Windows Server 2008 R2, the ADDSDeployment PS module is not used.
                dcpromo.exe /unattend /ReplicaOrNewDomain:Domain /NewDomain:Forest /NewDomainDNSName:"adatum.com" /DomainNetBiosName:"ADATUM" /DomainLevel:7 /ForestLevel:7 '/SafeModeAdminPassword:"Pa$$w0rd"' /DatabasePath:"$env:SYSTEMROOT\NTDS" /LogPath:"$env:SYSTEMROOT\NTDS" /SysVolPath:"$env:SYSTEMROOT\SYSVOL" /AllowDomainReinstall:Yes /CreateDNSDelegation:No /DNSOnNetwork:No /InstallDNS:Yes /RebootOnCompletion:No *>> $script:LogFile
            } else {
                Write-Log -Message 'The server is already a domain controller. Skipping dcpromo execution.'
            }

            # Prevent the Server Manager from saying that additional configuration is required.
            # Note: The Roles key does not exist on Windows Server 2008 R2.
            Write-Log -Message 'Marking the AD DS role as already configured by the Server Manager...'
            Set-ItemProperty -Path 'registry::HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\ServerManager\Roles\10' `
                             -Name 'ConfigurationStatus' `
                             -Value 2 `
                             -Type DWord `
                             -Force `
                             -ErrorAction SilentlyContinue `
                             -Verbose *>> $script:LogFile

            # Avoid FSMO role holder being unavailable until it has completed replication of a writeable directory partition.
            Write-Log -Message 'Disabling the initial datatabse synchronization...'
            Set-ItemProperty -Path 'registry::HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\System\CurrentControlSet\Services\NTDS\Parameters' `
                             -Name 'Repl Perform Initial Synchronizations' `
                             -Value 0  `
                             -Type DWord `
                             -Force `
                             -Verbose *>> $script:LogFile

            # Continue with post-installation tasks.
            Register-ScheduledScript -ExecutePhase 5
        }
        5 {
            # Make sure that AD DS is not running.
            Write-Log -Message 'Checking the state of the NTDS service...'
            [System.ServiceProcess.ServiceController] $ntdsService = Get-Service -Name NTDS -ErrorAction SilentlyContinue

            if($null -eq $ntdsService) {
                Write-Log -Message 'Could not find the NTDS service. Terminating...'
                break
            } elseif ($ntdsService.Status -eq [System.ServiceProcess.ServiceControllerStatus]::Running) {
                Write-Log -Message 'Stopping the NTDS service...'
                Stop-Service -Name NTDS -Force -Verbose *>> $script:LogFile
            } else {
                # Note: This is the most common case, as AD DS should not be running before a reboot.
                Write-Log -Message 'The NTDS service is stopped. Proceeding with database restoration...'
            }

            # Replace the database files using robocopy.
            # Copy the database (*.dit, *.edb), checkpoint (*.chk), and flush map (*.jfm) files.
            # /MIR: Mirrors the directory tree
            # /NP: No progress
            # /NDL: No directory list
            # /NJS: No job summary
            Write-Log -Message 'Replacing the AD database files...'
            robocopy.exe 'C:\Backup\Active Directory' 'C:\Windows\NTDS' *.dit *.edb *.chk *.jfm /MIR /NP /NDL /NJS *>> $script:LogFile

            # Replace the transaction logs using robocopy.
            # Copy the transaction logs (*.log) and reserved transaction log files (*.jrs).
            Write-Log -Message 'Replacing the AD database transaction log files...'
            robocopy.exe 'C:\Backup\Active Directory' 'C:\Windows\NTDS' *.log *.jrs /MIR /NP /NDL /NJS *>> $script:LogFile

            # Re-encrypt the DB with the new boot key. We would get into a BSOD loop if the DC is unable to decrypt the database.
            Write-Log -Message 'Re-encrypting the database with the new boot key...'
            Set-ADDBBootKey -DatabasePath 'C:\Backup\Active Directory\ntds.dit' `
                            -LogPath 'C:\Backup\Active Directory' `
                            -OldBootKey '610bc29e6f62ca7004e9872cd51a0116' `
                            -NewBootKey '6d3327d97c69f11f25ca29b10e30b688' `
                            -Force `
                            -Verbose *>> $script:LogFile

            # Reconfigure LSA policies. We would get into a BSOD loop if they did not match the corresponding values in the database.
            Write-Log -Message 'Reconfiguring the LSA policies...'
            Set-LsaPolicyInformation -DomainName 'ADATUM' `
                                     -DnsDomainName 'Adatum.com' `
                                     -DnsForestName 'Adatum.com' `
                                     -DomainGuid '279b615e-ae79-4c86-a61a-50f687b9f7b8' `
                                     -DomainSid 'S-1-5-21-1817670852-3242289776-1304069626' `
                                     -Verbose *>> $script:LogFile

            # Set the proper Configuration NC. This step is required for non-root domains.
            Write-Log -Message 'Changing the configuration naming context...'
            Set-ItemProperty -Path 'registry::HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Services\NTDS\Parameters' `
                             -Name 'Configuration NC' `
                             -Value 'CN=Configuration,DC=Adatum,DC=com' `
                             -Type String `
                             -Force `
                             -Verbose *>> $script:LogFile

            # Set the proper root domain distinguished name. This step is required for non-root domains.
            Write-Log -Message 'Changing the root domain...'
            Set-ItemProperty -Path 'registry::HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Services\NTDS\Parameters' `
                             -Name 'Root Domain' `
                             -Value 'DC=Adatum,DC=com' `
                             -Type String `
                             -Force `
                             -Verbose *>> $script:LogFile

            # Set the distinguished name of NTDS Settings object. This step is required for non-default sites and non-root domains.
            Write-Log -Message 'Changing the machine distinguished name...'
            Set-ItemProperty -Path 'registry::HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Services\NTDS\Parameters' `
                             -Name 'Machine DN Name' `
                             -Value 'CN=NTDS Settings,CN=LON-DC1,CN=Servers,CN=Default-First-Site-Name,CN=Sites,CN=Configuration,DC=Adatum,DC=com' `
                             -Type String `
                             -Force `
                             -Verbose *>> $script:LogFile

            # Tell the DC that its DB has intentionally been restored. A new InvocationID will be generated as soon as the service starts.
            Write-Log -Message 'Marking the database as restored from backup...'
            Set-ItemProperty -Path 'registry::HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Services\NTDS\Parameters' `
                             -Name 'Database restored from backup' `
                             -Value 1 `
                             -Type DWord `
                             -Force `
                             -Verbose *>> $script:LogFile

            # Remove the DSA Database Epoch value to bypass the database rollback detection.
            Write-Log -Message 'Clearing the DSA Database Epoch value...'
            Remove-ItemProperty -Path 'registry::HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Services\NTDS\Parameters' `
                                -Name 'DSA Database Epoch' `
                                -Force `
                                -Verbose *>> $script:LogFile

            # Note:
            # The DC account is created/modified during the first boot after promotion.
            # The machine account password thus does not need to be copied by this script.

            # Continue to the next phase.
            Register-ScheduledScript -ExecutePhase 6
        }
        6 {
            # Replace the SYSVOL directory.
            # /MIR: Mirrors the directory tree
            # /XD: Excludes the DfsrPrivate directory from being copied.
            # /XJ: Excludes junction points, several of which are present in SYSVOL.
            # /COPYALL: Copies all file information, including data, attributes, timestamps, NTFS ACLs (permissions), owner information, and auditing information.
            # /SECFIX: Fixes file security on all files, even skipped ones.
            # /TIMFIX: Fixes file times on all files, even skipped ones.
            # /NP: No progress
            # /NDL: No directory list
            Write-Log -Message 'Replacing the SYSVOL files...'
            [string] $sourcePath = Join-Path -Path 'C:\Backup\SYSVOL' -ChildPath 'Adatum.com'
            [string] $targetPath = Join-Path -Path 'C:\Windows\SYSVOL' -ChildPath 'domain'
            robocopy.exe $sourcePath $targetPath /MIR /XD DfsrPrivate /XJ /COPYALL /SECFIX /TIMFIX /NP /NDL *>> $script:LogFile

            # Check if an optional SYSVOL Group Policy ACL backup is present.
            # This would be useful in situations where the SYSVOL is backed up to a non-NTFS file system.
            [string] $sysvolAclBackupPath = Join-Path -Path 'C:\Backup\SYSVOL' -ChildPath 'PolicyPermissions.txt'
            if(Test-Path -Path $sysvolAclBackupPath -PathType Leaf) {
                Write-Log -Message 'Restoring the SYSVOL Group Policy ACLs...'
                [string] $aclRestorePath = Join-Path -Path 'C:\Windows\SYSVOL' -ChildPath 'domain\Policies'
                icacls.exe $aclRestorePath /restore $sysvolAclBackupPath *>> $script:LogFile
            } else {
                Write-Log -Message 'No SYSVOL ACL backup found. Skipping the ACL restoration.'
            }

            # A reboot is required for AD to start.
            Register-ScheduledScript -ExecutePhase 7 -RebootRequired
        }
        7 {
            # Reconfigure SYSVOL replication in case it has been restored to a different path.

            # Make sure that AD Web Services are available.
            [System.ServiceProcess.ServiceController] $adws = Get-Service -Name NTDS -ErrorAction SilentlyContinue

            if($null -eq $adws -or $adws.Status -ne [System.ServiceProcess.ServiceControllerStatus]::Running) {
                Write-Log -Message 'AD Web Services are not available. Terminating...'
                break
            } else {
                Write-Log -Message 'The AD Web Services service is running. Proceeding with SYSVOL subscription reconfiguration...'
            }

            # Update DFS-R subscription if present in AD.
            Update-DfsrSubscription -DomainControllerDN 'CN=LON-DC1,OU=Domain Controllers,DC=Adatum,DC=com' `
                                    -SysvolPath 'C:\Windows\SYSVOL' `
                                    -DomainName 'Adatum.com'

            # Update FRS subscription if present in AD.
            Update-FrsSubscription -DomainControllerDN 'CN=LON-DC1,OU=Domain Controllers,DC=Adatum,DC=com' `
                                   -SysvolPath 'C:\Windows\SYSVOL'
        }
    }

    if($Phase -ge 1) {
        [string] $taskName = "DSInternals-RFM-Phase$Phase"
        Write-Log -Message "Removing the scheduled task $taskName..."
        schtasks.exe /Delete /TN $taskName /F *>> $script:LogFile
    }

    Write-Log -Message "Execution of phase $Phase has finished."
}

#region Helper Functions

<#
.SYNOPSIS
Resets the password of the local Administrator account (RID=500)
if it has not been set yet.

.NOTES
This recovery script intentionally contains plaintext passwords.
Using a SecureString in this function would not provide any additional security.
The corresponding PSScriptAnalyzer warning is therefore suppressed.

#>
function Reset-LocalAdministratorPassword {
    [Diagnostics.CodeAnalysis.SuppressMessageAttribute("PSAvoidUsingPlainTextForPassword", "")]
    param(
        [Parameter(Mandatory = $true)]
        [string] $NewPassword
    )

    # Note: Due to compatibility reasons, the Get-LocalUser cmdlet is not used.
    Write-Log -Message 'Fetching built-in Administrator account information through WMI...'
    [wmi] $builtinAdminWMI = Get-WmiObject -Class Win32_UserAccount -Filter 'SID LIKE "%-500"' -Property Name

    Write-Log -Message 'Fetching built-in Administrator account information through ADSI...'
    [adsi] $builtinAdminADSI = 'WinNT://./{0},User' -f $builtinAdminWMI.Name
    [bool] $hasPassword = $builtinAdminADSI.PasswordAge.Value -gt 0

    if(-not $hasPassword) {
        Write-Log 'Setting a password for the local Administrator account...'
        $builtinAdminWMI.SetPassword($NewPassword) *>> $script:LogFile
    } else {
        Write-Log 'A password for the local Administrator account has already been set. No action is required.'
    }
}

<#
.SYNOPSIS
Creates a new volume shadow copy of the specified volume.
#>
function New-VolumeShadowCopy {
    param(
        [Parameter(Mandatory = $true)]
        [ValidatePattern('^[A-Z]:$')]
        [string] $Volume
    )

    Write-Log 'Creating a snapshot of the system drive to make rollback possible...'
    ([wmiclass] 'Win32_ShadowCopy').Create("$Volume\", 'ClientAccessible') *>> $script:LogFile
}

function Register-ScheduledScript {
    param(
        [Parameter(Mandatory = $true)]
        [int] $ExecutePhase,

        [Parameter(Mandatory = $false)]
        [switch] $RebootRequired
    )

    # Each phase of the script is executed by a separate scheduled task.
    [string] $taskName = "DSInternals-RFM-Phase$ExecutePhase"

    # Locate powershell.exe
    [string] $psPath = Get-Command -Name 'powershell.exe' -CommandType Application | Select-Object -ExpandProperty Path

    # Locate the current PS script
    [string] $scriptPath = $script:MyInvocation.MyCommand.Source

    # Generate the complete command line
    [string] $commandLine = '"{0}" -ExecutionPolicy Bypass -NonInteractive -NoProfile -NoLogo -File "{1}" -Phase {2}' -f $psPath,$scriptPath,$ExecutePhase

    # NOTE: The ScheduledTasks module is not used because it is not available on Windows Server 2008 R2.
    Write-Log -Message 'Registering the script to be executed as a scheduled task...'
    schtasks.exe /Create /TN $taskName /TR $commandLine /SC ONSTART /RU SYSTEM /RL HIGHEST /F *>> $script:LogFile

    if($RebootRequired) {
        # Reboot the computer and let it automatically execute the scheduled task.
        Write-Log -Message 'Rebooting the computer to continue the restore process...'
        shutdown.exe /r /t 5 /f *>> $script:LogFile
    } else {
        # Start the scheduled task immediately.
        Write-Log -Message 'Starting the scheduled task...'
        schtasks.exe /Run /I /TN $taskName *>> $script:LogFile
    }
}

<#
.SYNOPSIS
Checks whether the script is being executed from a local file.
#>
function Test-ScriptPath {
    Write-Log -Message 'Checking if the script is being executed from a local file...'

    # Check if the PSScriptRoot variable is set.
    [bool] $isScript = -not [string]::IsNullOrEmpty($PSScriptRoot)

    if(-not $isScript) {
        Write-Log -Message 'Not running as script. Terminating...'
        throw 'The script must be executed from a local file.'
    } else {
        if(-not ([uri] $PSScriptRoot).IsUnc) {
            Write-Log -Message 'The script is being executed from a local file.'
        } else {
            Write-Log -Message 'Running from a UNC path. Terminating...'
            throw 'The script must be executed from a local file.'
        }
    }
}

<#
.SYNOPSIS
Updates the DFS-R subscription if present in AD.

.PARAMETER DomainControllerDN
The distinguished name of the domain controller computer account.

.PARAMETER SysvolPath
The path to the SYSVOL share on the target domain controller.
#>
function Update-DfsrSubscription {
    param(
        [Parameter(Mandatory = $true)]
        [string] $DomainControllerDN,

        [Parameter(Mandatory = $true)]
        [string] $SysvolPath,

        [Parameter(Mandatory = $true)]
        [string] $DomainName
    )

    # Make sure that the required data types and cmdlets are available.
    Import-Module -Name ActiveDirectory -ErrorAction Stop

    Write-Log -Message 'Updating the FRS subscription object in AD...'
    [string] $dfsrSubscriptionDN = "CN=SYSVOL Subscription,CN=Domain System Volume,CN=DFSR-LocalSettings,$DomainControllerDN"
    [Microsoft.ActiveDirectory.Management.ADObject] $dfsrSubscription = Set-ADObject -Identity $dfsrSubscriptionDN -Server localhost -PassThru -ErrorAction SilentlyContinue -Replace @{
        'msDFSR-RootPath' = Join-Path -Path $SysvolPath -ChildPath 'domain'
        'msDFSR-StagingPath' = Join-Path -Path $SysvolPath -ChildPath "staging areas\$DomainName"
    }

    if($null -ne $dfsrSubscription) {
        # Download the updated DFS-R configuration from AD.
        Write-Log -Message 'Polling AD for DFS-R configuration changes...'
        Invoke-WmiMethod -Class DfsrConfig -Name PollDsNow -ArgumentList localhost -Namespace ROOT\MicrosoftDfs *>> $script:LogFile
    } else {
        Write-Log -Message 'DFS-R subscription was not found in AD. Has the domain not yet been migrated from FRS?'
    }
}

<#
.SYNOPSIS
Updates the FRS subscription if present in AD.

.PARAMETER DomainControllerDN
The distinguished name of the domain controller computer account.

.PARAMETER SysvolPath
The path to the SYSVOL share on the target domain controller.
#>
function Update-FrsSubscription {
    param(
        [Parameter(Mandatory = $true)]
        [string] $DomainControllerDN,

        [Parameter(Mandatory = $true)]
        [string] $SysvolPath
    )

    # Make sure that the required data types and cmdlets are available.
    Import-Module -Name ActiveDirectory -ErrorAction Stop

    # Update FRS subscription if present in AD.
    Write-Log -Message 'Updating the FRS subscription object in AD...'
    [string] $frsSubscriptionDN = "CN=Domain System Volume (SYSVOL share),CN=NTFRS Subscriptions,$DomainControllerDN"
    [Microsoft.ActiveDirectory.Management.ADObject] $frsSubscription = Set-ADObject -Identity $frsSubscriptionDN -Server localhost -PassThru  -Verbose -ErrorAction SilentlyContinue -Replace @{
        'fRSRootPath' = Join-Path -Path $SysvolPath -ChildPath 'domain'
        'fRSStagingPath' = Join-Path -Path $SysvolPath -ChildPath 'staging\domain'
    }

    if($null -ne $frsSubscription) {
        # Download the updated FRS configuration from AD.
        Write-Log -Message 'Polling AD for FRS configuration changes...'
        ntfrsutl.exe poll /now *>> $script:LogFile
        # TODO: Check what happens if the FRS service is disabled on the new DC.
    } else {
        Write-Log -Message 'FRS subscription was not found in AD. This is expected.'
    }
}

<#
.SYNOPSIS
Writes a message to both the console and a log file.

.PARAMETER Message
The message to be written.
#>
function Write-Log {
    param(
        [Parameter(Mandatory = $true)]
        [string] $Message
    )

    [string] $logMessage = '{0:yyyy-MM-dd HH:mm:ss} {1}' -f (Get-Date), $Message
    Write-Host $logMessage
    Add-Content -Path $script:LogFile -Value $logMessage -Encoding UTF8
}

#endregion Helper Functions

# Execute the main function
Main
```

## PARAMETERS

### -BootKey
Specifies the system key that encrypts secrets stored in the database specified by the -DatabasePath parameter. If none is specified, it is automatically extracted from a backup of the SYSTEM registry hive, provided that it is present in the ..\registry\SYSTEM path relative to the -DatabasePath parameter.

```yaml
Type: Byte[]
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases: key, SysKey, SystemKey

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -DatabasePath
Specifies a non-UNC path to the backup of domain database (ntds.dit file) that will be used to restore the domain controller.

```yaml
Type: String
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases: Database, DBPath, DatabaseFilePath, DBFilePath

Required: True
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -LogPath
Specifies a non-UNC path to a directory that contains the backup of domain log files. If not specified, the value of the DatabasePath parameter is used.

```yaml
Type: String
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases: Log, TransactionLogPath

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -SafeModeAdministratorPassword
Supplies the password for the administrator account when the computer is started in Safe Mode or a variant of Safe Mode, such as Directory Services Restore Mode. If no value is specified for this parameter, the cmdlet prompts you to enter and confirm a masked password. If specified with a value, the value must be a secure string.

```yaml
Type: SecureString
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases: SafeModeAdminPassword, AdminPassword, DSRMPassword

Required: True
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -SysvolPath
Specifies a non-UNC path to a directory that contains the backup of Sysvol data. If none is specified, the ..\SYSVOL\ path relative to the -DatabasePath parameter is used.

```yaml
Type: String
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases: SysVol

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### CommonParameters
This cmdlet supports the common parameters: -Debug, -ErrorAction, -ErrorVariable, -InformationAction, -InformationVariable, -OutVariable, -OutBuffer, -PipelineVariable, -Verbose, -WarningAction, and -WarningVariable. For more information, see [about_CommonParameters](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=113216).

## INPUTS

### None

## OUTPUTS

### System.String

## NOTES

This recovery procedure is NOT SUPPORTED by Microsoft. Use at your own risk in situations when Active Directory forest reinstallation is the only other option.

## RELATED LINKS

[Get-BootKey](Get-BootKey.md)
[Get-ADDBDomainController](Get-ADDBDomainController.md)
